Absolute chord name. Example: 'A7'.
Bass. Notes which must be in the chord, and are the lowest in pitch.
Bass note name. See note name.
Bass note number. See note number.
Chord group. An abstract grouping of chords which is given a name by a user.
Chord name. Regular, regular note-plus, or user-given.
Chord number. Example: '0'. In duodecimal octavity, they run from '0' to '2047', which is the number formed by the mathematical expression, '2**11 - 1'. 
Chord octave-note distributions ('convert bit pattern into chord system name'). In duodecimal octavity, they run from '0' to '7ff': the bass note is implicit.
Composition. What music is sketched in.
Duodecimal. Having to do with the number, twelve ('12').
Key modulation(?). A 'rhythm' indicator.
Melody. Notes which must be in the chord, and are played more audibly somehow.
Melody note name. See note name.
Melody note number. See note number.
Mozart note-plus chord name. Example: [-s4. /3. Find in my Mozart chords blog post.] For duodecimal octavity only.
Mozart tonic chord name. See, 'Mozart note-plus chord name' and 'Regular tonic chord name'.
Necklace. A chord, regardless of transpositions and inversions. See the Wikipedia article of the same name.
Necklace group. An abstract grouping of necklaces which is given a name by a user.
Necklace inversion number. In duodecimal octavity, they run through some of '0' to '11': i.e., whatever notes the chord has.
Necklace name. User-given.
Necklace number. In duodecimal octavity, they run from '0' to '350'.
Note name. They run from 'G' down to 'Ab'. For duodecimal octavity only.
Note number. In duodecimal octavity, they run from '0' down to '11'. A simplification in this package is that the note number, '0', for all octavities, has the same pitch: a note, G on a standard, physical piano.
Octavity. The number of equal-tempered notes within a doubling of the frequency. A rhythm indicator. The major, globally used, Western European system has duodecimal octavity (wherein this number is, '12'). A simplification in this package is that all the musical notes produced are equal-tempered.
Regular note-plus chord name. Example: 'Am'. For duodecimal octavity only.
Regular tonic chord name. Example: 'i7'. For duodecimal octavity only.
Relative chord name. Example: 'II7'.
Rest. A 'rhythm' indicator. Literally, 'rest'.
Rhythm indicators. Example: '|- -(- -)|' is eight (8) indicators specifying a measure of time equally subdivided into three units. Includes key modulations(?), octavities, rests, tempos, and volumes.
Standard jazz note-plus chord name (of some kind). Example: [suspensions or minor sevenths, etc.]. For duodecimal octavity only.
Standard jazz tonic chord name. See, 'Standard jazz note-plus chord name (of some kind)' and 'Regular tonic chord name'.
Tempo. A 'rhythm' indicator.
Tool. Unix tool program.
User identity. What some information is stored by, inside and outside of compositions.
Volume. A 'rhythm' indicator.
